# A Novel Whisker Sensor Used for 3D Contact Point Determination and Contour Extraction
### This repository serves as a source location for the supplementary videos associated with a paper submitted to the Robotics: Science and Systems Conference XIV (June 26 - June 30 2018)

#### Authors: Hannah M. Emnett, Matthew M. Graff, Mitra J. Z. Hartmann

Abstract: We developed a novel whisker-follicle sensor that measures three mechanical signals at the whisker base. The first two signals are closely related to the two bending moments, and the third is an approximation to the axial force. Previous simulation studies have shown that these three signals are sufficient to determine the three-dimensional (3D) location at which the whisker makes contact with an object. Here we demonstrate hardware implementation of 3D contact point determination and then use continuous sweeps of the whisker to show proof-of principle 3D contour extraction. We begin by using simulations to confirm the uniqueness of the mapping between the mechanical signals at the whisker base and the 3D contact point location for the specific dimensions of the hardware whisker. Multi-output random forest regression is then used to predict the contact point locations of objects based on observed mechanical signals. When calibrated to the simulated data, signals from the hardware whisker can correctly predict contact point locations to within 1.5 cm about 74% of the time. However, if normalized output voltages from the hardware whiskers are used to train the algorithm (without calibrating to simulation), predictions improve to within 1.5 cm for about 96% of contact points and to within 0.6 cm for about 78% of contact points. This improvement suggests that as long as three appropriate predictor signals are chosen, calibrating to simulations may not be required. The sensor was next used to perform contour extraction on a cylinder and a cone. We show that basic contour extraction can be obtained with just two sweeps of the sensor. With further sweeps, it is expected that full 3D shape reconstruction could be achieved.

Acknowledgements:This multi-year research effort was supported by a sequence of awards from the National Science Foundation (NSF): award numbers EFRI-0938007, IIS-1208118, and BCS-1734981 to MJZH. This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship Program under Grant No. DGE-1324585 to HME. We thank Anne E.T. Yang for her help with the figures and many useful discussions, the Brinson Group at Duke University and specifically David Collinson for fabricating the whiskers, and Mikhail Todes and Kegan Leizerman for their early contributions to the design of the artificial follicle.

Citation: H. Emnett, M. Graff, and M. Hartmann, “A Novel Whisker Sensor Used for 3D Contact Point Determination and Contour Extraction,” in Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, 2018.
